Increasingly, machine learning models are used to predict stock prices and execute trades based on these predictions. In order for the models to perform comparably or better than human traders, it is necessary to determine suitable parameters for training these models. In addition to the classic key figures of a company such as revenue, profit and debt ratio, technical indicators calculated from historical share prices can also be used.
This thesis is based on an empirical investigation to determine the technical indicator combination that has the most significant positive impact on specific machine learning models using the two performance measures mean absolute percentage error and accuracy. It is also investigated which of the machine learning models used, multiple linear regression models, LSTM and CNN models, show the best performance. The machine learning models are trained using all possible feature combinations, which can be formed from the technical indicators, opening price, volatility, RSI, MACD and momentum. The technical indicators used will be calculated using the time series of the 30 largest companies in the S&P 500 and DAX Index from 2020 to 2023.
In addition to the mean absolute percentage error and the accuracy, a score is calculated for each feature combination and for each model, which includes both the average mean absolute percentage error and the average accuracy as well as the relative frequency in terms of how often a feature combination was able to minimise or maximise the two performance measures listed. 
For both the S&P 500 Index and the DAX, LSTM models were found to have the lowest mean absolute percentage error. The highest accuracy was shown by the multiple linear regression models. For none of the machine learning models examined, a feature combination could be determined that led to high performance in most of the cases. Accordingly, the most appropriate combination of features must be determined individually for each company. Unlike the LSTM and CNN models, the multiple linear regression models exhibit a trend where combinations including a higher number of technical indicators result in a lower mean absolute percentage error. This tendency cannot be observed when using accuracy as a performance measure.

Keywords: stock prediction, machine learning models, technical indicators, feature selection, model performance
